README.md, before:

# Azure Storage output plugin for Fluentd

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/htgc/fluent-plugin-azurestorage.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/htgc/fluent-plugin-azurestorage)

## Requirements

| fluent-plugin-influxdb | fluentd | ruby |
|------------------------|---------|------|
| >= 0.1.0 | >= v0.14.0 | >= 2.1 |
|  < 0.1.0 | >= v0.12.0 | >= 1.9 |

## Overview

Azure Storate output plugin buffers logs in local file and upload them to Azure Storage periodically.
This plugin is porting from [fluent-plugin-s3](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-plugin-s3) for AzureStorage.

## Installation

Install from RubyGems:
```
$ gem install fluent-plugin-azurestorage
```

## Configuration

### v0.14 style

```
<match pattern>
  type azurestorage

  azure_storage_account    <your azure storage account>
  azure_storage_access_key <your azure storage access key>
  azure_container          <your azure storage container>
  azure_storage_type       blob
  store_as                 gzip
  auto_create_container    true
  path                     logs/
  azure_object_key_format  %{path}%{time_slice}_%{index}.%{file_extension}
  time_slice_format        %Y%m%d-%H
  # if you want to use ${tag} or %Y/%m/%d/ like syntax in path / s3_object_key_format,
  # need to specify tag for ${tag} and time for %Y/%m/%d in <buffer> argument.
  <buffer tag,time>
    @type file
    path /var/log/fluent/azurestorage
    timekey 3600 # 1 hour partition
    timekey_wait 10m
    timekey_use_utc true # use utc
  </buffer>
</match>
```

For `<buffer>`, you can use any record field in `path` / `azure_object_key_format`.

```
path logs/${tag}/${foo}
<buffer tag,foo>
  # parameters...
</buffer>
```

See official article for more detail: Buffer section configurations

Note that this configuration doesn't work with fluentd v0.12.

### v0.12 style

```
<match pattern>
  type azurestorage

  azure_storage_account    <your azure storage account>
  azure_storage_access_key <your azure storage access key>
  azure_container          <your azure storage container>
  azure_storage_type       blob
  store_as                 gzip 
  auto_create_container    true
  path                     logs/
  azure_object_key_format  %{path}%{time_slice}_%{index}.%{file_extension}
  buffer_path              /var/log/fluent/azurestorage

  time_slice_format        %Y%m%d-%H
  time_slice_wait          10m
  utc
</match>
```

### azure_storage_account

Your Azure Storage Account Name. This can be got from Azure Management potal.
This parameter is required when environment variable 'AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT' is not set.

### azure_storage_access_key

Your Azure Storage Access Key(Primary or Secondary). This also can be got from Azure Management potal.
This parameter is required when environment variable 'AZURE_STORAGE_ACCESS_KEY' is not set.

### azure_container (Required)

Azure Storage Container name

### auto_create_container

This plugin create container if not exist when you set 'auto_create_container' to true.

### azure_storage_type

Azure Storage type. Now supports only 'blob'(default). 'tables' and 'queues' are not implemented.

### azure_object_key_format

The format of Azure Storage object keys. You can use several built-in variables:

- %{path}
- %{time_slice}
- %{index}
- %{file_extension}

to decide keys dynamically.

%{path} is exactly the value of *path* configured in the configuration file. E.g., "logs/" in the example configuration above.
%{time_slice} is the time-slice in text that are formatted with *time_slice_format*.
%{index} is the sequential number starts from 0, increments when multiple files are uploaded to Azure Storage in the same time slice.
%{file_extention} is always "gz" for now.

The default format is "%{path}%{time_slice}_%{index}.%{file_extension}".

For instance, using the example configuration above, actual object keys on Azure Storage will be something like:

```
"logs/20130111-22_0.gz"
"logs/20130111-23_0.gz"
"logs/20130111-23_1.gz"
"logs/20130112-00_0.gz"
```

With the configuration:

```
azure_object_key_format %{path}/events/ts=%{time_slice}/events_%{index}.%{file_extension}
path log
time_slice_format %Y%m%d-%H
```

You get:

```
"log/events/ts=20130111-22/events_0.gz"
"log/events/ts=20130111-23/events_0.gz"
"log/events/ts=20130111-23/events_1.gz"
"log/events/ts=20130112-00/events_0.gz"
```

The [fluent-mixin-config-placeholders](https://github.com/tagomoris/fluent-mixin-config-placeholders) mixin is also incorporated, so additional variables such as %{hostname}, %{uuid}, etc. can be used in the azure_object_key_format. This could prove useful in preventing filename conflicts when writing from multiple servers.

```
azure_object_key_format %{path}/events/ts=%{time_slice}/events_%{index}-%{hostname}.%{file_extension}
```

### store_as

Archive format on Azure Storage. You can use following types:

- gzip (default)
- json
- text
- lzo (Need lzop command)
- lzma2 (Need xz command)

### format

Change one line format in the Azure Storage object. Supported formats are 'out_file', 'json', 'ltsv' and 'single_value'.

- out_file (default)

```
time\ttag\t{..json1..}
time\ttag\t{..json2..}
...
```

- json

```
{..json1..}
{..json2..}
...
```

At this format, "time" and "tag" are omitted.
But you can set these information to the record by setting "include_tag_key" / "tag_key" and "include_time_key" / "time_key" option.
If you set following configuration in AzureStorage output:

```
format json
include_time_key true
time_key log_time # default is time
```

then the record has log_time field.

```
{"log_time":"time string",...}
```

- ltsv

```
key1:value1\tkey2:value2
key1:value1\tkey2:value2
...
```

"ltsv" format also accepts "include_xxx" related options. See "json" section.

- single_value

Use specified value instead of entire recode. If you get '{"message":"my log"}', then contents are

```
my log1
my log2
...
```

You can change key name by "message_key" option.

### path

path prefix of the files on Azure Storage. Default is "" (no prefix).

### buffer_path (required)

path prefix of the files to buffer logs.

### time_slice_format

Format of the time used as the file name. Default is '%Y%m%d'. Use '%Y%m%d%H' to split files hourly.

### time_slice_wait

The time to wait old logs. Default is 10 minutes. Specify larger value if old logs may reache.

### utc

Use UTC instead of local time.

## License
Azure Storage output plugin is licensed according to the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.

The full version of this lisence can be found at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 [TXT](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt) or [HTML](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request

Commit message:

The change is mainly migrating authentication method from storage key to MSI-based oauth token, as I feel it's a security risk to store secret in a file and look for similar experience of fluentd-s3, which relies on instance profile to auth s3 buckets.
Changes involved:

Upgrade Azure SDK to azure-blob-client 1.1.0. At the time of write Azure SDK is divided into submodules and distributed separately. Blob client is the only one needed here.

Introduce new config params azure_instance_msi and azure_oauth_refresh_interval to support OAuth, details is added in Authentication section in readme.

Change config param auto_create_container to false, now Azure by default makes container private, returns 404 for get_properties, and invalidates ensure_container(). Hence users need to adjust the properties of their account if they'd like to enable creation. Making default value to false to enforce user to be aware of this fact.

README.md, after:

# Azure Storage output plugin for Fluentd

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/htgc/fluent-plugin-azurestorage.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/htgc/fluent-plugin-azurestorage)

## Requirements

| fluent-plugin-azurestorage | fluentd | ruby |
|------------------------|---------|------|
| >= 0.2.0 | >= v0.14.0 | >= 2.4 |
|  < 0.2.0 | >= v0.12.0 | >= 2.1 |

## Overview

Azure Storate output plugin buffers logs in local file and upload them to Azure Storage periodically.
This plugin is porting from [fluent-plugin-s3](https://github.com/fluent/fluent-plugin-s3) for AzureStorage.

## Installation

Install from RubyGems:
```
$ gem install fluent-plugin-azurestorage
```

## Configuration

### v0.14 style

```
<match pattern>
  type azurestorage

  azure_storage_account           <your azure storage account>
  azure_storage_access_key        <your azure storage access key>
  azure_instance_msi              <your azure instance MSI id>
  azure_oauth_refresh_interval    <your azure MSI token refresh interval in seconds>
  azure_container                 <your azure storage container>
  azure_storage_type       blob
  store_as                 gzip
  auto_create_container    true
  path                     logs/
  azure_object_key_format  %{path}%{time_slice}_%{index}.%{file_extension}
  time_slice_format        %Y%m%d-%H
  # if you want to use ${tag} or %Y/%m/%d/ like syntax in path / s3_object_key_format,
  # need to specify tag for ${tag} and time for %Y/%m/%d in <buffer> argument.
  <buffer tag,time>
    @type file
    path /var/log/fluent/azurestorage
    timekey 3600 # 1 hour partition
    timekey_wait 10m
    timekey_use_utc true # use utc
  </buffer>
</match>
```

For `<buffer>`, you can use any record field in `path` / `azure_object_key_format`.

```
path logs/${tag}/${foo}
<buffer tag,foo>
  # parameters...
</buffer>
```

See official article for more detail: Buffer section configurations

Note that this configuration doesn't work with fluentd v0.12.

### v0.12 style

```
<match pattern>
  type azurestorage

  azure_storage_account           <your azure storage account>
  azure_storage_access_key        <your azure storage access key>
  azure_instance_msi              <your azure instance MSI id>
  azure_oauth_refresh_interval    <your azure MSI token refresh interval in seconds>
  azure_container                 <your azure storage container>
  azure_storage_type       blob
  store_as                 gzip 
  auto_create_container    true
  path                     logs/
  azure_object_key_format  %{path}%{time_slice}_%{index}.%{file_extension}
  buffer_path              /var/log/fluent/azurestorage

  time_slice_format        %Y%m%d-%H
  time_slice_wait          10m
  utc
</match>
```

### azure_storage_account

Your Azure Storage Account Name. This can be got from Azure Management potal.
This parameter is required when environment variable 'AZURE_STORAGE_ACCOUNT' is not set.

### azure_storage_access_key

Your Azure Storage Access Key(Primary or Secondary). This also can be got from Azure Management potal. Storage access key authentication is used when this parameter is provided or environment variable 'AZURE_STORAGE_ACCESS_KEY' is set.

### azure_instance_msi

Your Azure Managed Service Identity ID. When storage key authentication is not used, the plugin uses OAuth2 to authenticate as given MSI. This authentication method only works on Azure VM. If the VM has only one MSI assigned, this parameter becomes optional and the only MSI will be used. Otherwise this parameter is required.

### azure_oauth_refresh_interval

OAuth2 access token refreshment interval in second. Only applies when MSI authentication is used.

### azure_container (Required)

Azure Storage Container name

### auto_create_container

This plugin create container if not exist when you set 'auto_create_container' to true.

### azure_storage_type

Azure Storage type. Now supports only 'blob'(default). 'tables' and 'queues' are not implemented.

### azure_object_key_format

The format of Azure Storage object keys. You can use several built-in variables:

- %{path}
- %{time_slice}
- %{index}
- %{file_extension}

to decide keys dynamically.

%{path} is exactly the value of *path* configured in the configuration file. E.g., "logs/" in the example configuration above.
%{time_slice} is the time-slice in text that are formatted with *time_slice_format*.
%{index} is the sequential number starts from 0, increments when multiple files are uploaded to Azure Storage in the same time slice.
%{file_extention} is always "gz" for now.

The default format is "%{path}%{time_slice}_%{index}.%{file_extension}".

For instance, using the example configuration above, actual object keys on Azure Storage will be something like:

```
"logs/20130111-22_0.gz"
"logs/20130111-23_0.gz"
"logs/20130111-23_1.gz"
"logs/20130112-00_0.gz"
```

With the configuration:

```
azure_object_key_format %{path}/events/ts=%{time_slice}/events_%{index}.%{file_extension}
path log
time_slice_format %Y%m%d-%H
```

You get:

```
"log/events/ts=20130111-22/events_0.gz"
"log/events/ts=20130111-23/events_0.gz"
"log/events/ts=20130111-23/events_1.gz"
"log/events/ts=20130112-00/events_0.gz"
```

The [fluent-mixin-config-placeholders](https://github.com/tagomoris/fluent-mixin-config-placeholders) mixin is also incorporated, so additional variables such as %{hostname}, %{uuid}, etc. can be used in the azure_object_key_format. This could prove useful in preventing filename conflicts when writing from multiple servers.

```
azure_object_key_format %{path}/events/ts=%{time_slice}/events_%{index}-%{hostname}.%{file_extension}
```

### store_as

Archive format on Azure Storage. You can use following types:

- gzip (default)
- json
- text
- lzo (Need lzop command)
- lzma2 (Need xz command)

### format

Change one line format in the Azure Storage object. Supported formats are 'out_file', 'json', 'ltsv' and 'single_value'.

- out_file (default)

```
time\ttag\t{..json1..}
time\ttag\t{..json2..}
...
```

- json

```
{..json1..}
{..json2..}
...
```

At this format, "time" and "tag" are omitted.
But you can set these information to the record by setting "include_tag_key" / "tag_key" and "include_time_key" / "time_key" option.
If you set following configuration in AzureStorage output:

```
format json
include_time_key true
time_key log_time # default is time
```

then the record has log_time field.

```
{"log_time":"time string",...}
```

- ltsv

```
key1:value1\tkey2:value2
key1:value1\tkey2:value2
...
```

"ltsv" format also accepts "include_xxx" related options. See "json" section.

- single_value

Use specified value instead of entire recode. If you get '{"message":"my log"}', then contents are

```
my log1
my log2
...
```

You can change key name by "message_key" option.

### path

path prefix of the files on Azure Storage. Default is "" (no prefix).

### buffer_path (required)

path prefix of the files to buffer logs.

### time_slice_format

Format of the time used as the file name. Default is '%Y%m%d'. Use '%Y%m%d%H' to split files hourly.

### time_slice_wait

The time to wait old logs. Default is 10 minutes. Specify larger value if old logs may reache.

### utc

Use UTC instead of local time.

## License
Azure Storage output plugin is licensed according to the terms of the Apache License, Version 2.0.

The full version of this lisence can be found at http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0 [TXT](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.txt) or [HTML](http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html)

## Contributing

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request
